# This is a simple journal to record my journey through programming #

Beginning
Its hard to sum it up but I am around 1-2 weeks inside the programming journey
now. I completed some chapters from python crash course which gave me a really
basic view over programming. I am working on linux machine and slowly learning
everything I need to know to be more proficient.

02.03.19
I learned how to make functions in python. I also wrote some programs for euler
and hackerrank. This showed me the complexity of programming and how it can
beautifully fit together. There is a lot to learn still. I also started
configuring git and now I am able to save all changes on github.

03.03.19
I learned a lot about terminal this day and also decided to move mostly to
terminal operations. This should profit in the future as I am more able to move
through console. I changed my text editor to vim and started configuring it.

04.03.19
Finished learning functions chapter from python crash course. Also finished
configuring vim program to suit my personal needs. That was an intensive day
but now I am able to use vim quite comfortably. Still not sure if its worth it.

05.03.19
Added some functionality to vim program. Finished chapters on functions and
started learning python classes. Now it kind of makes more sense how can you
write such a complicated big programs. Solved some math problems in the phone
but without compiling.

06.03.19
Started to compile noted programs. So many bugs XD its better to write them
straight in a text editor, in the morning i had troubles recalling what was it
all about. I am at the beginning after all. After spending few hours I managed
to make both of them work. Optimalisation is shit, my computer can barely
calculate all the operations. Not because of the power but because of the
shitty beginner code.

07.03.19
Finished classes chapter. Started doing another ones. Upgraded program for
euler but its still not enough, program is formated too slow and finding
dividers of a large number takes too long. Maybe reversed logic as with prime
numbers could be useful here. I also started working with a files inside a program today.

08.03.19
Finished chapter about the files and exceptions. Now I know how to read, write
and append a file. Not much practice with that though. I started watching a
video course to review all the knowledge that I gained. I slowly started to
look for another things to learn.

09.03.19
Finished watching a video course. It was very basic but gave me a review of the
material that I learned. Some problems with a computer started after installing
YouCompleteMe plugin into the vim editor. Now maybe I have better funcionality
but im not so sure that my computer is doing good. I think I need to set up a
new device as soon as possible.

11.02.19
Downloaded a lot of materials about different topics. I started researching
into my topic about the data science. It seems hard because a lot of math is
involved but slowly it will be clearer. I just need to finish the book first
and complete some other projects. Data science seems big. 

12.03.19
My linux got destroyed, I needed to reinstall my system. it was a pity but
fortunately I found why it was lagging so much, the problem was not vim as I
thought but faulty font that I installed, it was slowing down the whole system
by loading. Now its over and I can come back to work.

13.03.19
I'm getting back to python. I research some libraries, tried to use NumPy and
did a lot of research about data and APIs. Also learned chapter about code
testing. After this one everything gets clearer and clearer, now I no what is
TDD and how to program in a more efficient way. The thing that I need now is
simply exercise and practise.

14.03.19
I am doing data visualisation project now. I started doing plots with
matplotlib, had some problems with that but after configuration it is working
well. Good. Lazier day than usual in case of programming, I was reading a lot
of stuff about linux distros, data science and overall information.

15.03.19
Continue to learn about plotting. Next chapters from the book. I did some stuff
in matplotlib, random generation for example. I like this data science. This is
a topic I am interested in although I must say that it is hard. This is quite
hard topic and I must still learn a lot to do some project and be really
proficient. Another thing that I noticed is that I am becoming less and less
interested in programming, its a natural thing for me, explosion of interest
and sudden drop. i must survive this wave. Maybe its simply because everything
is harder now, there is no simple structure. Maybe it's just because I have
harder days and I lost grip over my actions a little bit. I am not so sharp
anymore. I think part of it is because I am here and programming is my only
true activity, it can also be because I am with someone in the room, I would
like to see how it will go in france, good or not. This is the thing for the
future. 

16.03.19
I finished learning matplotlib this day. At least I know some basic options
now. I can plt and change the graph, how it looks. This is definately a good
skill to have. It will be useful with my project. Whenever I will start it. I
have to start before I leave from here. At least start it.

17.03.19
I did some graphs in pygal. I think it's showing much better graphs in much
better form than matplotlib, the file extension is also different so this must
be an important case. I read a lot of stuff about python, data science and
programming. It's part of immersion inside the topic and this field of science.
I am not progressing so much with the book though.

18.03.19
I started the day with reading a lot about python. For me it's more about the
overall information and concepts than projects. I have to change that soon. i
am ready to do projects right now and it's necessary for my improvement to do
them. That's the best way to learn. Ideas are little though and I am afraid I
will fall back into copy/paste style of doing things.

19.03.19
I finished doing visualisations in matplotlib. I am thinking intensively about
the project that I want to do. I even started plotting some data connected to
it. The population grows in a very linear way that I'm very surprised in. The
project is on my mind anyway. Ideal way would be to connect it to a web
application to let others use it in the web browsers. Doing that only after
downloading files is stupid. I am reading a lot about python related stuff but
I must say that the progress feels slower. I hope it's not, that's why I am
doing this journal, to see how it goes in the future. Programming is definately
a very interesting way to create stuff and manage things. It is for me. It
feels like it.

20.03.19

22.03.19
I made a more detailed plan to my project, now I just need to start doing it.
It is much bigger than I suspected and I need to get rid of the thinking that I
need to know everything before I start. It would be impossible to finish it and
to even start it in the first place.

29.03.19
Standard break in updating something. It was not a unproductive time though. I
finished some functionalities in my project population. Not a very big ones but
now I am able to visualize different regions on the world. I know how tu use
some visualisation libraries and working with data is easier. The thing I was
lacking is the structure of the project. Because of it I started doing alien
invasion project where I can learn those things. I finished 1/3 chapters of it
and now I am much more confident about how to structure bigger program. How to
divide it into the files and how to properly make it function. Maybe I will
make a small game later. The Game of Life. That would be cool. I'm not sure if
any of this will be good for the portfolio but I am learning a lot and this is
what matters. I am having a lot of fun with it seeing how I progress. This
means that I still have plenty to learn and practise. I could be doing a lot
more but spending few hours everyday seems sufficient. i could easily take a
small job. Teaching english would be perfect but I fucked up a little with
that. That's a pity. My motivation is higher than ever and this is what
matters. 

~
---------------------------- Modification -------------------------------------
~

Journal is a way to make my knowledge systematic, to review what I learned,
discovered and to try to put it into my words to stabilise it in my memory.

10.04.19
Long time no see. I was working on the alien invasion project for a while but I
forgot to update my journal. Although just rewriting from the book this was a
challenging task. I learned so much. Now I know how to structurise the project
on different files, how to write meaningful functions and classes and also how
to refactor the code. This was challenging but maybe I just don't know yet how
to do it efficiently in vim. Now when copying is easier and pasting also this
might not be such an issue. Still the program I am mot familiar with is vim, I
tried pycharm and it sucked. It's just the amount of time put into learning
though. No more. The thing that was the most difficult for me was to put all
the arguments correctly into the functions and classes. This was nightmare,
most of the things didn't want to work because of this issue. It's just the
case of creating a proper mind map of every functions and what it connects to.
Maybe because I was mostly rewriting and learning from the book this was such a
problem. Learning pygame was also allright. 
To create a game like this we need basic functions from pygame like creating a
window, putting elements into this window, making the move. All of it should be
in separate functions and the main file should be clear to preserve the logic.
Game functions should be in separate file, all classes also and settings too
for easier modification in the future. All of the work seems so easy now.
